**fleet management project**

**cucumber practice**

**group2-eu12**


**Explanation:**

I used different management and automation tools as IntelliJ, Selenium WebDriver for browser automation, Maven for dependencies, Cucumber and Junit. I also used
POM structure to keep my code organized and clean.

**POM-->**

**pages**-->I created a separate Java class for each page of my application where I store all the elements of that page.

**BasePage**-->I created a BasePage class, which is a common web element for all other pages and methods

**(usage)-->BasePage** is abstract class that's why I have to extend from other pages

**public BasePage() {
PageFactory.initElements(Driver.get(), this); }**
**PageFactory:** This is a class from the Selenium WebDriver library that provides a way to initialize elements in Page Objects. Page Objects are a design pattern used for modeling web pages in a more object-oriented way.
**initElements:** This is a method of the PageFactory class used to initialize elements on a page.
**Driver.get():** This is invoking a static method (possibly get()) on a class named Driver. It seems like it's retrieving some WebDriver instance (Driver class) that is used to interact with a web browser.
**this:** It refers to the current instance of the BasePage class.

-->I created a BasPage constructor. It's in a class that gets executed automatically when an object of the class is created.

**Example of method in BasePage**-->navigateToModule(String tab, String module) getPageSubTitle() waitUntilLoaderScreenDisappear() getUserName()

**PageFactory:**

**TestBase:** dont confused we use in testNg this part. before and tearDown method inside.

**step definitions:**
I have separate classes where I keep my implemented step definitions. I write my code in here

**Cucumber feature files:**
for each scenario(positive or negative) I created Cucumber feature files
where I used GHERKIN language to describe my test scenarios.

**JUnit:**
for starting my tests and for assertions, My framework is BDD, which uses Cucumber to write tests in feature file, organize
test suites like @store_manager   @sales_manager @login   @driver.
Our feature files are written in Gherkin language to make it easy to understand for nontechnical people

**HTML reports:**
My framework generates HTML reports with defined steps from the feature file.

**runner class:**
**CukesRunner**
**@RunWith(Cucumber.class)**
**@CucumberOptions**
**plugin** html report, cucumber report, 
**features** Scenario included this path 
**glue** step definition package path includes here  
**dryRun** It's a quick way to check for missing or undefined step definitions.
**tags** which tag we will run
**FailedTestRunner**
**@RunWith(Cucumber.class)**
**@CucumberOptions**
**plugin = {"html:target/failed-html-reports"},
features = "@target/rerun.txt", //location of my rerun folder
glue= "com/vytrack/step_definitions"//step definition folder path**
/**
* If some test is fail it will just show which one is fail
* once when we fix fail test I dont want to run 1000 test again
* we can run FailedTestRunner(run just failed one) instead od running from CukesRunner class(for run everything)
* don't forget in the beginning we run our code from CukesRunner class
* under target folder rerun.txt automatically created--> we put CukesRunner class inside plugin and write there rerun:target/rerun.txt
* this rerun.txt shows us where is the problem line not pass
* for delete memory from there click the maven symbol --> Lifecycle --> clean
  */
**utilities:**
I created another separate package for my utilities where I would store all my Drivers, ConfigurationReader and BrowserUtils

**Drivers**-->
Driver class is designed as **Singleton**(if-else) My frameworks uses a singleton pattern to share the webdriver instance between different classes
DriverPool(set,remove,get) include Chrome,firefox, edge , headless-chrome( driverPool.set(new ChromeDriver(new ChromeOptions().setHeadless(true)));)
// InheritableThreadLocal  --> this is like a container, bag, pool. return webelement
// in this pool we can have separate objects for each thread
// for each thread, in InheritableThreadLocal we can have separate object for that thread
// driver class will provide separate webdriver object per thread

**ConfigurationReader:**
for read my configuration.properties file. key and value format I have getProperty metod
for reading file FileInputStream class inside static block and try.catch block properties value is private

**BrowserUtils:** i create basic method that I use often for not repeat myself.
example:sleep() verifyTitle() verifyTitleContains() verifyURLContains() clickRadioButtondropdownOptions_as_STRING() hover() getElementsText()

-this part is not correct I will cover later-
-Reporting is done in cucumber and Junit -
-Junit is using runner class file generated by the cucumber each time the test is run in Junit-

**pom.xml:**
I created my dependencies and **plug-ins** in **pom.xml**.
**maven:** 11
**selenium version:** 4.12.1
**webdrivermanager:** its optional for selenium4 but necessary for selenium3
**cucumber-java:** needed to write and execute Cucumber scenarios.
**cucumber-junit:**  is used to integrate Cucumber scenarios with the JUnit testing framework.
**reporting-plugin:** it generates HTML reports containing information about the executed scenarios, steps, and overall test results
**Maven Surefire Plugin:** this configuration is used for running JUnit tests in parallel. 

**stepDefinitions**
**Hooks** @Before-setUpMethod @After-tearDown works same as testNg@Before-AfterMethod
**LoginStepDefs** I write my java method here and execute feature files

# Author
- Ahmet Faruk Eser - lusiferc679@gmail.com
- Mujgan Aydin Oymaci - mujganaydin0732@gmail.com
